Feat/document scs2 (#298)
SovereignCloudStack/docs: community/cloud-resources/plusserver-gx-scs.md

author: Ralf Heiringhoff, Mathias Fechner
---

## Getting Started on SCS1 (the Gaia-X Demonstrator @ plusserver, aka. gx-scs)

### URLs for accessing SCS1

- UI (Horizon): [https://ui.gx-scs.sovereignit.cloud/](https://ui.gx-scs.sovereignit.cloud/)
- API auth url (Keystone): [https://api.gx-scs.sovereignit.cloud:5000](https://api.gx-scs.sovereignit.cloud:5000)
- Object Storage endpoint (S3/SWIFT): [https://api.gx-scs.sovereignit.cloud:8080](https://api.gx-scs.sovereignit.cloud:8080)

### Authentication (UI)

For your login you will need:

- Username (`u500924-<$github-handle>`)
- Password
- Domain (`d500924`)

### Getting Started with OpenStack

See [Getting Started with OpenStack](./getting-started-openstack.md)

## Getting started on SCS2 (the successor to SCS1)

After having used the SCS1 environment for validation, testing,
skill building and having provided generous access to the SCS community,
it will no longer be taken care of well by PlusServer as of January 2025
and can thus be expected to run out of capacity and fail in other ways.

> It will be switched off in the coming months.

Author: ```suggestion
It will be switched off in February 2025.
```
